en,zh: add pause deployment docs of tidb cluster (#906)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/pause-sync-of-tidb-cluster.md

---
title: Pause Sync of TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes
summary: Introduce how to pause sync of TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes
---

# Pause Sync of TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes

This document introduce how to pause sync of TiDB cluster in Kubernetes with config file.

> ## What is Sync in TiDB Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is sync in TiDB Operator
```

In TiDB Operator, a non-terminating control loop (controller) regulates the state of the TiDB cluster in Kubernetes. The controller constantly compares the desired state recorded in the `TidbCluster` object with the actual state of the TiDB cluster. This process is referred to as **sync** generally. For more details, refer to [TiDB Operator Architecture](architecture.md).

## Use scenarios

Here are some cases where you might need to pause sync of a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.

- Avoiding unexpected rolling update
    Suppose the TiDB cluster is unexpectedly rolling updated due to a compatible issue of a new TiDB Operator version or an operation error (user fault), and you want to pause this unexpected rolling update. You can pause sync of the TiDB cluster to avoid TiDB cluster being updated unexpectedly.

- Maintenance window
    In some situations, you can configure the status of the TiDB cluster only during a maintenance window. When outside the maintenance window, you can pause sync of the TiDB cluster, so that any modification to spec does not take effect. When inside the maintenance window, you can resume sync of the TiDB cluster to allow changes to status of TiDB cluster.

> ## Pausing sync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pause sync
```

> ## Pausing Sync of TiDB Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pause sync
```

> You could append `paused: true` to `spec` item in config file of TiDB cluster, and apply the config file. Sync of TiDB cluster's components (PD, TiKV, TiDB, Pump) will be paused. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could append `paused: true` to `spec` item in the config file of the TiDB cluster, and apply the config file. Sync of TiDB cluster's components (PD, TiKV, TiDB, Pump) will be paused. 
```

> 1. Edit the configuration file like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit the configuration file as follows:
```

    {{< copyable "" >}}
    
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbCluster
    metadata:
      name: basic
    spec:
      ...
      paused: true  # Pausing sync of TiDB cluster
      pd:
        ...
      tikv:
        ...
      tidb:
        ...
    ```

> 2. Execute following command to apply above config file. `${tidb-cluster-file}` represents config file of TiDB cluster, `${tidb-cluster-namespace}` refers to namespace of TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Execute the following command to apply the above config file. `${tidb-cluster-file}` represents the TiDB cluster config file, and `${tidb-cluster-namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f ${tidb-cluster-file} -n ${tidb-cluster-namespace}
    ```

> 3. If sync of TiDB cluster has been paused, execute following command to confirm the sync status of TiDB cluster. `${controller-pod-name}` represemnts the name of Controller Pod, `${tidb-operator-namespace}` represents the namespace of TiDB Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Execute the following command to confirm the sync status of TiDB cluster. `${controller-pod-name}` is the name of Controller Pod, and `${tidb-operator-namespace}` is the namespace of TiDB Operator.
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl logs ${controller-pod-name} -n `${tidb-operator-namespace}` | grep paused
    ```
    

>     The expected output is as follows, it shows that sync of components of TiDb cluster have been paused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The expected output is as follows. The sync of all components in the TiDB cluster is paused.
```

    
    ```
    I1207 11:09:59.029949       1 pd_member_manager.go:92] tidb cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for pd service
    I1207 11:09:59.029977       1 pd_member_manager.go:136] tidb cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for pd headless service
    I1207 11:09:59.035437       1 pd_member_manager.go:191] tidb cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for pd statefulset
    I1207 11:09:59.035462       1 tikv_member_manager.go:116] tikv cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for tikv service
    I1207 11:09:59.036855       1 tikv_member_manager.go:175] tikv cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for tikv statefulset
    I1207 11:09:59.036886       1 tidb_member_manager.go:132] tidb cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for tidb headless service
    I1207 11:09:59.036895       1 tidb_member_manager.go:258] tidb cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for tidb service
    I1207 11:09:59.039358       1 tidb_member_manager.go:188] tidb cluster default/basic is paused,     skip syncing for tidb statefulset
    ```

> ## Resuming sync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resume sync
```

> ## Resuming Sync of TiDB Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resume sync
```

> After troubleshooting, if you want to resume the sync of TiDB cluster, you can change config item `spec.paused` of TiDB CLuster config file from `true` to `false`, and apply the config file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After troubleshooting, if you want to resume the sync of the TiDB cluster, configure `spec.paused` to `false`, and apply the config file. 
```

> 1. Edit the configuration file like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit the configuration file as follows:
```

    {{< copyable "" >}}
    
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbCluster
    metadata:
      name: basic
    spec:
      ...
      paused: false  # Resuming Sync of TiDB Cluster
      pd:
        ...
      tikv:
        ...
      tidb:
        ...
    ```

> 2. Execute the following command to apply the above config file, `${tidb-cluster-file}` represents the TiDB cluster config file, and `${tidb-cluster-namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Execute the following command to apply the above config file. `${tidb-cluster-file}` represents the TiDB cluster config file, and `${tidb-cluster-namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.
```

Author: fixed

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f ${tidb-cluster-file} -n ${tidb-cluster-namespace}
    ```

3. After resuming sync of TiDB cluster, execute following command to confirm sync status of TiDB cluster. `${controller-pod-name}` represemnts the name of Controller Pod, `${tidb-operator-namespace}` represents the namespace of TiDB Operator.

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl logs ${controller-pod-name} -n `${tidb-operator-namespace}` | grep "Finished syncing TidbCluster"
    ```
    

>     We can see that the timestamp of finishd syncing is later than tiemstamp of pasuing, it indicates that sync of TiDB cluster has been resumed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The expected output is as follows. The `finished syncing` timestamp is later than the `pausing` timestamp, which indicates that sync of the TiDB cluster has been resumed.
```

---
title: Pause Sync of a TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes
summary: Introduce how to pause sync of a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes
---

# Pause Sync of a TiDB Cluster in Kubernetes

> This document introduce how to pause sync of a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes with configuration.

Author: fixed

## What is sync in TiDB Operator

In TiDB Operator, controller regulates the state of the TiDB cluster in Kubernetes. The controller constantly compares the desired state recorded in the `TidbCluster` object with the actual state of the TiDB cluster. This process is referred to as **sync** generally. For more details, refer to [TiDB Operator Architecture](architecture.md).

## Use scenarios

Here are some cases where you might need to pause sync of a TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.

- Avoiding unexpected rolling update

>     In order to prevent the compatibility of the new version TiDB Operator from affecting the TiDB clusters, you can pause sync of TiDB clusters before updating the TiDB Operator. After updating TiDB Operator, resume sync of TiDB clusters one by one or resume sync of TiDB clusters at a specified time, so as to observe the impact of TiDB Operator rolling update on the cluster.

Author: fixed

- Avoid multiple rolling restarts

>     In some cases, the configuration of a TiDB cluster may be modified several times over a period of time, but you do not want to restart the TiDB cluster many times. In order to avoid multiple rolling restarts, you can pause sync of a TiDB cluster first. During this period, any modification to configuration of the TiDB cluster will not take effect. After the cluster configuration modification is completed, resuming sync of TiDB Cluster. At this time, multiple configuration changes during the sync pausing can be applied in one time rolling restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In some cases, you might need to continuously modify the cluster over a period of time, but do not want to restart the TiDB cluster many times. To avoid multiple rolling restarts, you can pause sync of the cluster. During the sync pausing, any change of the configuration does not take effect on the cluster. After you finish the modification, resume sync of the TiDB cluster. All changes can be applied in a single rolling restart.
```

Author: fixed

- Maintenance window

>     In some situations, you can update or restart TiDB cluster only during a maintenance window. When outside the maintenance window, you can pause sync of the TiDB cluster, so that any modification to spec does not take effect. When inside the maintenance window, you can resume sync of the TiDB cluster to allow TiDB cluster rolling update or restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In some situations, you can update or restart the TiDB cluster only during a maintenance window. When outside the maintenance window, you can pause sync of the TiDB cluster, so that any modification to the specs does not take effect. When inside the maintenance window, you can resume sync of the TiDB cluster to allow TiDB cluster to rolling update or restart.
```

Author: fixed

## Pause sync

> 1. Execute the following command to edit configuration of TiDB cluster. `${cluster_name}` represents the name of TiDB cluster, and `${namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Execute the following command to edit the TiDB cluster configuration. `${cluster_name}` represents the name of the TiDB cluster, and `${namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.
```

Author: fixed

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl edit tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

> 2. Configure the TidbCluster CR with `spec.paused: true` as following, save changes and exit editor, sync of TiDB cluster's components (PD, TiKV, TiDB, TiFlash, TiCDC,Pump) will be paused. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure `spec.paused: true` as follows, and save changes. The sync of TiDB cluster components (PD, TiKV, TiDB, TiFlash, TiCDC, Pump) is then paused. 
```

Author: fixed

    {{< copyable "" >}}
    
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbCluster
    metadata:
      ...
    spec:
      ...
      paused: true  # Pausing sync of TiDB cluster
      pd:
        ...
      tikv:
        ...
      tidb:
        ...
    ```

> 3. Execute the following command to confirm the sync status of a TiDB cluster. `${pod_name}` is the name of tidb-controller-manager Pod, and `${namespace}` is the namespace of TiDB Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To confirm the sync status of a TiDB cluster, execute the following command. `${pod_name}` is the name of tidb-controller-manager Pod, and `${namespace}` is the namespace of TiDB Operator.
```

Author: fixed

    
    The expected output is as follows. The sync of all components in the TiDB cluster is paused.
    
    ```
    I1207 11:09:59.029949       1 pd_member_manager.go:92] tidb cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for pd service
    I1207 11:09:59.029977       1 pd_member_manager.go:136] tidb cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for pd headless service
    I1207 11:09:59.035437       1 pd_member_manager.go:191] tidb cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for pd statefulset
    I1207 11:09:59.035462       1 tikv_member_manager.go:116] tikv cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for tikv service
    I1207 11:09:59.036855       1 tikv_member_manager.go:175] tikv cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for tikv statefulset
    I1207 11:09:59.036886       1 tidb_member_manager.go:132] tidb cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for tidb headless service
    I1207 11:09:59.036895       1 tidb_member_manager.go:258] tidb cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for tidb service
    I1207 11:09:59.039358       1 tidb_member_manager.go:188] tidb cluster default/basic is paused, skip syncing for tidb statefulset
    ```

## Resume sync

> If you want to resume the sync of the TiDB cluster, configure the TidbCluster CR with `spec.paused: false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resume the sync of the TiDB cluster, configure `spec.paused: false` in the TidbCluster CR.
```

Author: fixed

> 1. Execute the following command to edit configuration of TiDB cluster. `${cluster_name}` represents the name of TiDB cluster, and `${namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Execute the following command to edit the TiDB cluster configuration. `${cluster_name}` represents the name of the TiDB cluster, and `${namespace}` refers to the TiDB cluster namespace.
```

Author: fixed

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl edit tc ${cluster_name} -n ${namespace}
    ```

> 2. Configure the TidbCluster CR with `spec.paused: false` as following, save changes and exit editor, sync of TiDB cluster's components (PD, TiKV, TiDB, TiFlash, TiCDC,Pump) will be resumed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure `spec.paused: false` as follows, and save changes. The sync of TiDB cluster components (PD, TiKV, TiDB, TiFlash, TiCDC, Pump) is then resumed. 
```

Author: fixed

    {{< copyable "" >}}
    
    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbCluster
    metadata:
      ...
    spec:
      ...
      paused: false  # Resuming sync of TiDB cluster
      pd:
        ...
      tikv:
        ...
      tidb:
        ...
    ```

> 3. After resuming sync of the TiDB cluster, execute the following command to confirm sync status of the TiDB cluster. `${pod_name}` represents the name of tidb-controller-manager Pod, `${namespace}` represents the namespace of TiDB Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To confirm the sync status of a TiDB cluster, execute the following command. `${pod_name}` represents the name of the tidb-controller-manager Pod, and `${namespace}` represents the namespace of TiDB Operator.
```

Author: fixed

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}
    
    ```shell
    kubectl logs ${pod_name} -n ${namespace} | grep "Finished syncing TidbCluster"
    ```
    

>     The expected output is as follows. The `finished syncing` timestamp is later than the `pausing` timestamp, which indicates that sync of the TiDB cluster has been resumed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The expected output is as follows. The `finished syncing` timestamp is later than the `paused` timestamp, which indicates that sync of the TiDB cluster has been resumed.
```

Author: fixed
